docs: adding overview for operator installs (#156)
aerospike/kubernetes-operator: docs/install-operator-olm.md

---
title: Install the Operator Using OLM
description: How to install the Aerospike Kubernetes Operator using Operator Lifecycle Management (OLM)
id: install-operator-olm
---

To begin, create a new Kubernetes cluster on the platform of your choice, and configure kubectl to use that cluster. See the [Requirements page](System-Requirements.md) for Kubernetes version and other requirements.

:::tip

> In some situations it may be desired to install Aerospike clusters via Helm rather than through the operator. In these cases one must [use Helm to install the Operator](install-operator-helm.md), rather than OLM.

Reviewer: @arrowplum What situations would I rather use Helm?  I would rewrite this to say, "In a case such as xyz, you can or should install Aerospike clusters using Helm instead of the Operator."

:::

## Operator Overview

> The Aerospike Kubernetes Operator makes it easier for you to use Aerospike Enterprise clusters on Kubernetes. Instead of making changes to the cluster by hand, you specify changes in the Aerospike cluster CR file and use `kubectl apply` to apply these changes. The Operator picks up on the changes and does what it needs to do in order to make them happen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Aerospike Kubernetes Operator makes it easier for you to use Aerospike Enterprise clusters on Kubernetes. Instead of making changes to the cluster manually, you specify changes in the Aerospike cluster CR file and use `kubectl apply` to apply the changes. The Operator then executes the changes.
```

For example, to add Rack Awareness to your Aerospike cluster, add a rack-aware section to the CR as described in [Rack Awareness](Rack-Awareness.md). Use `kubectl apply -f` to apply the CR, and the Operator deploys Rack Awareness as specified.

> This documentation includes examples of various Aerospike configuration settings and possibilities you can use with your Aerospike cluster on Kubernetes. If you have questions, suggestions, or other feedback, please let us know.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation includes examples of the various Aerospike configuration settings and possibilities you can use with your Aerospike cluster on Kubernetes. If you have questions, suggestions, or other feedback, please let us know.
```

## Install the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)

> We recommend using [Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)](https://olm.operatorframework.io/]) to run and manage the Aerospike Kubernetes Operator in production environments. OLM is the preferred way to manage Kubernetes operators in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using [Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)](https://olm.operatorframework.io/]) to run and manage the Aerospike Kubernetes Operator in production environments. 
```

```

## RBAC

For information on working with RBAC on multiple clusters, see [RBAC for other namespace](Multiple-Aerospike-clusters.md).

## Verify the Operator is Running

Use `kubectl get csv -n aerospike` to verify the Operator's CSV is in the `Succeeded` phase.

```shell
$ kubectl get csv -n aerospike

NAME                                       DISPLAY                         VERSION     REPLACES   PHASE
aerospike-kubernetes-operator.v2.0.0   Aerospike Kubernetes operator   2.0.0              Succeeded

```

Next, use `kubectl get pod -n aerospike` to verify the Operator's pod is running.

```shell
$ kubectl get pod -n aerospike

NAME                                                              READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
5af02cb7676a864fa68cc875fb1bc64df2f1223ab355b4911792e9--1-vlltn   0/1     Completed   0          63s
aerospike-operator-controller-manager-55d45754bf-smzxc            2/2     Running     0          48s
ker-io-aerospike-aerospike-kubernetes-operator-bundle-2-0-0       1/1     Running     0          73s

```

## Check Operator Logs

> If you need to view the Operator logs for any reason, use `kubectl -n aerospike logs -f [manager pod name] -c manager` to show the logs on your manager pod. To find the manager pod name, use `kubectl get pod -n aerospike` as shown above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the Operator logs on your manager pod, use `kubectl -n aerospike logs -f [manager pod name] -c manager` . To find the manager pod name, use `kubectl get pod -n aerospike` as shown above.
```
